# CS-350-Project
CS-350 Project: Thermostat

This repository contains two folders for two different projects developed on a TI SimpleLink CC3220S microcontroller LaunchPad development kit. In the first project, two LEDs blink the morse codes for the words SOS and OK. It starts with SOS and if the user presses a button it switches to OK and vice-versa. The second project is more complex, and is a prototype for a thermostat. It uses a sensor to read the temperature and compares it to a setpoint temperature defined by the user. The user can press two buttons to increase or decrease the setpoint temperature, and an LED turns on (simulating the heat) when the temperature read by the sensor is lower than the setpoint value.

As I worked on these projects, I was able to successfully use drivers to communicate with the hardware and implement the required functionalities, while observing the constraints common in embedded systems. Furthermore, I also created visual representations of the programs as state machines and task schedulers. Improvements could be made for the modularity of the program, which could improve its readibility. I have added the content from this course's resources, such as zyBooks and the website www.tutorialspoint.com/embedded_systems, to my support network to assist me in the future.

I have always been fascinated by embedded programming and this class clarified many of its essential concepts. Even if I do not work in the field of embedded systems, the skills I learned working on these projects can be applied to other fields. For instance, the considerations and optimizations required when working with constraints, such as performance and timing, can be applied to other areas of computer science. Moreover, concepts like timers and interrupts can also be applied to other systems and programming languages.

To ensure that my code was maintainable, readable, and adaptable, I followed various coding best practices, such as following naming conventions and keeping the code simple and portable. I also focused on commenting my code explaining the functionalities being implemented and the logic behind them. For example, I commented the states of the Morse Code program to make it easier to read the logic behind each state. I also tested the program each time a new functionality had been implemented.
